---
title: About me
---

Hey! My name is Gabriel. I’m a brazillian programmer, designer, and activist.

I’m currently working on my Bachelor of Information Systems degree at University of São Paulo’s Institute of Mathematics and Computer Sciences, as a developer at U-Get, and on a couple personal projects.

=> https://usp.br/ University of São Paulo
=> https://icmc.usp.br/ Institute of Mathematics and Computer Sciences
=> https://uget.express U-Get

I'm interested in FLOSS, Distributed Systems, Software Engineering, and Functional Programming. Mainly working with Linux, Rust, Postgres, Nix, Python, Go, and C/C++.

## Tech and design

I’ve been into computers, science and math since i was little. I love Linux (FOSS in general), CLI programs, customization, and graphic design.

I enjoy modern and egornomical languagens, strong typing and high performance are nice to have.

I favor minimalism and composability in tools. I currently use NixOS, SwayWM, Neovim, Qutebrowser, NeoMutt as daily drivers.

=> https://nixos.org NixOS
=> https://swaywm.org SwayWM
=> https://neovim.io Neovim
=> https://qutebrowser.org Qutebrowser
=> https://neomutt.org NeoMutt

## Other stuff

I’m a huge fan of space and science fiction genres (games, books, artwork).

I love animals (i’ve got five cats and a dog), the planet, and the people who live in it.

## Causes

Studying at one of the big public universities of Brazil, meeting all sort of amazing people, and witnessing injustice has shaped how i think.

I'm an free software, environmental, queer, anti-capitalist, and education activist.

You'll probably see me avoiding proprietary software and walled gardens at all costs.

## Reach out
### Email
=> mailto:eu@misterio.me eu@misterio.me
=> mailto:g.fontes@usp.br g.fontes@usp.br
=> 7088C7421873E0DB97FF17C2245CAB70B4C225E9.asc PGP: 245C AB70 B4C2 25E9

### Social
=> https://twitter.com/misterio7x7 twitter: @misterio7x7
=> https://linkedin.com/in/misterio7 linkedin: misterio7

### Chat
=> tg://resolve?domain=misterio7x telegram: @misterio7x
=> https://matrix.to/#/@misterio:matrix.org matrix: @misterio:matrix.org

### Forges
=> https://sr.ht/~misterio sourcehut: ~misterio7x
=> https://github.com/misterio77 github: misterio77
