---
layout: null
---

# Gabriel Fontes' geminispace

## About me

Hey! My name is Gabriel. I’m a brazillian programmer, designer, and activist.

I’m currently working on my Bachelor of Information Systems degree at University of São Paulo’s Institute of Mathematics and Computer Sciences, as a developer at UGet, and on a couple personal projects.

I mainly work with Linux, Rust, Python, Go, C/C++, and Docker.

### Tech and design

I’ve been into computers, science and math since i was little. I love Linux (FOSS in general), CLI programs (vim keys!), customization, and graphic design (specially color theory).

I enjoy modern and egornomical languagens, strong typing and high performance are nice to have. My favorite languagens are Rust, Go and Haskell.

I favor minimalism and composability in tools. I currently use NixOS, SwayWM, Neovim, Qutebrowser, NeoMutt as daily drivers.

### Other stuff

I’m a huge fan of space and science fiction genres (games, books, artwork).

I love animals (i’ve got five cats and a dog), the planet, and the people who live in it.

### Causes

Studying at one of the big public universities of Brazil, meeting all sort of amazing people, and witnessing injustice has shaped how i think. I’m an environmental, animal rights, free software, privacy, queer, social, and education activist.

## Reach out
### Email
=> mailto:eu@misterio.me Personal: eu@misterio.me
=> mailto:g.fontes@usp.br School: g.fontes@usp.br
=> 7088C7421873E0DB97FF17C2245CAB70B4C225E9.asc PGP: 245C AB70 B4C2 25E9

### Chat
=> tg://resolve?domain=misterio7x Telegram: @misterio7x
=> https://matrix.to/#/@misterio:matrix.org Matrix: @misterio:matrix.org
