---
title: Curriculum Vitae
permalink: /cv/
---

## Overview

My interests in computing include free software, distributed systems, software
engineering, reproducibility, DevOps, CI/CD, and development tooling.

I started out with Linux, service hosting, programming, and design as a
teenager, and have never stopped. I currently contribute to a few free software
projects, some of them of my own creation. My technologies of choice nowadays
include Rust, Haskell, Lua, PostgreSQL, Nix(OS), Docker, and Terraform.

Most of my professional experience consists of development processes, build
systems, infrastructure, and backend development. I also have experience with
UI/UX, as well as (web and graphical) design.

I'm currently employed full-time as a Site Reliability Engineer at [Magalu
Cloud](https://magalu.cloud), where we build a Object Storage solution.

I'm working towards a Computer Science MSc degree at [University of São
Paulo](https://usp.br)'s [Institute of Mathematics and Computer
Sciences](https://icmc.usp.br/en/), under the [Software Engineering
Lab](http://www.labes.icmc.usp.br). My current research is around Software
Sustainability in Open Source projects.

Outside of computing, I enjoy reading, playing the keyboard, snuggling with my
pets, and speaking about things I'm passionate about. I love learning new
things and teaching what I know to others.

## Education/Research

### University of Groningen (2025)

[University of Groningen](https://rug.nl) (RUG) is one of Netherland's top universities,
and frequently in the world's top 100, and is specially focused in
internationalization.

#### Research Internship (2025)

I'm currently enrolled in a 3 month internship in RUG, focusing on the
intersection between Cloud Computing Sustainability and Open Source Software
tooling.

### University of São Paulo (2020-present)

[University of São Paulo](https://usp.br) (USP) is considered to be Brazil's most
prestigious university, and is frequently ranked the top university in Latin
America. The computing degrees offered by the [Institute of Mathematics and
Computer Sciences](https://icmc.usp.br) are also top-ranking, being one of the
best places to study computing in Latin America.

During my time here, I helped create and currently lead our [Open Source & Free
Software extracurricular group](https://gelos.club).

#### Master's: Computer Science and Computational Mathematics (2023-present)

I'm currently researching Software Sustainability in Open Source Software
projects, hoping to contribute to how we currently understand best practices
for successful, long-lived, self-sustaining OSS.

#### Bachelor's: Computer Information Systems (2020-2022)

I've studied different areas in computing, and gained a lot of hard and soft
skills. Subjects I've particularly enjoyed include Software Engineering,
Software Testing, Databases, and Operating Systems.

I was a teaching assistant for a semester, on a Database Practice subject.

## Industry experience

### Magazine Luiza / Luizalabs (2024-present)

[Magazine
Luiza](https://ri.magazineluiza.com.br/ShowCanal/Quem-Somos?=urUqu4hANldyCLgMRgOsTw==&linguagem=en)
is a leading retail company group in Brazil. Its technology division,
[Luizalabs](https://ri.magazineluiza.com.br/show.aspx?idMateria=zrW63qZDygmEVMe9BMldXQ%3D%3D&linguagem=en),
generates technological innovation within the retail industry, and beyond.

#### Site Reliability Engineer (2024-present)

[Magalu Cloud](https://magalu.cloud) is Brazil's first 100% domestic Public
Cloud Platform. My team is responsible for the platform's Object Storage
solution. My responsabilities as an SRE include: deployment automation (mainly
[Canonical Juju](https://juju.is)), automated testing, monitoring, and
coordinating routine processes (deployments, disk replacements, etc.).

### Zoocha (2023-2024)

[Zoocha](https://zoocha.com) is a digital agency, specially focused on Drupal
development. Drupal is something between a framework and a CMS, allowing for
great extensibility and development experience, while letting final users
intuitively manage content. Zoocha's clients include government, universities,
and private companies.

While Zoocha was a smaller company, it was my first time working within a
dedicated DevOps team, and I learned a lot about task prioritization,
organization, and processes.

#### DevOps Engineer (2023-2024)

As part of the DevOps team, I mainly tackled technical debt and supported
developers with better tooling and practices, while simultaneously taking care
of cloud operations and making sure everything was running smoothly.

Some of the work included improving developer tooling, migrating (chef-based)
client infrastructure from AWS OpsWorks into Terraform-managed AWS SSM, and
dealing with day-to-day operations.

### U-Get (2020-2023)

[U-Get](https://uget.express) is a startup that pioneered a computer
vision-based vending machine system. The system is able to recognize and bill
customers based on what they pick up from a vending spot (e.g. a fridge or
locker), without any mechanical components other than some cameras and an
electronic lock, avoiding complex (and expensive) mechanisms present in
traditional vending machines.

Our team built our systems from the ground up - including mobile apps, fleet
management and billing systems; leveraging Cloud of Things technologies.

#### DevOps Engineer (2020-2023)

I worked with cloud computing (AWS), declarative infrastructure (terraform),
containers, deployments, CI/CD, databases; I've championed development cultural
changes, moving everything over to more reproducible solutions, and leaded a
shift to a working code review culture with shared ownership.

#### Freelance Developer (2020-2020)

I started off at U-Get by creating a management solution for a fleet of Android
tablets. The MVP was a Python CLI (later re-written into a Rust Backend) that
handled the entire lifecycle of our tablets.

### EVAG

[EVAG](https://evag.me) is a digital agency, focusing on WordPress and custom
solutions for different clients, mostly politicians and activists.

#### Communication Intern (2020)

A temporary job during Brazilian 2020 municipal elections, I've built campaign
websites for multiple candidates. The job involved working closely together
with the candidates, and making their requirements into actual websites in a
very short timespan.

## Open Source Experience

### Flavours

[Flavours](https://github.com/misterio77/flavours) is a command line tool I
created to aid in managing and applying
[base16](https://github.com/chriskempson/base16) color schemes to different
programs a person uses. This allows for consistent theming that can be easily
changed (after setting it up once), and works specially well for software with
text-based configuration files. It is quite popular, with 450+ stars on GitHub.

### Nix ecosystem

[Nix](https://nixos.org) is a build and deployment tool based on functional
programming concepts, such as immutability. It allows for highly reproducible
packaging, as well as fully declarative Linux systems through
[NixOS](https://nixos.org).

I'm a very active member in the community. Besides contributing with packages
and modules, I've also created a couple relatively popular projects for the
ecossystem:
- [nix-colors](https://github.com/misterio77/nix-colors), a repository of
    nix-accessible base16 color schemes and a module that make their use more
    convenient. It currently has 440+ stars on GitHub.
- [nix-starter-configs](https://github.com/misterio77/nix-starter-configs)
    is a collection of nix repository templates. It aims to provide simple,
    opinionated templates so that people starting out with Nix can hit the
    ground running. It has become the most popular NixOS flake template, and
    one of the most starred nix projects overall, with 2,000+ stars on GitHub.

### Other contributions

As I prefer to use open source tools, I frequently hack on them to add a
feature I want or fix a bug; usually upstream the results as PRs. Thanks to
this, I know my way around codebases written on different languages.
